# Doctor's Note Summarizer

This project summarizes a doctor's note in a way that is easy for the patient to understand.

> See this project in action on Streamlit! Click here: https://doctors-note-summarizer.streamlit.app/

## Project and Work Product Description:

A doctor or other healthcare provider may write a note to describe a health care visit, telephone call, or other patient interaction. The problem is that the doctor's report is often full of medical terminology and procedural shorthand that is too complex for most patients to understand. Our goal is to make a doctor's note more accessible for their patient to comprehend.

| The Project As-Is: | The Project To-Be: |
| --------------- | --------------- |
| Diagram 1 | Diagram 2 |
| **File Format:** Input any text file (.txt). Output a text file (.txt). | **File Format:** Input text and images of a doctor's handwritten notes. Output simplified English text with voice audio option |
| **Python Packages:** NLTK | **Python Packages:** TensorFlow/Keras, NLTK |

## Description of Solution: 

We use artificial intelligence (AI) and the Python programming language to simplify a doctor's note in layman's terms. Our vision is that all patients with various levels of education, class, and abilities (sight, hearing, etc) can better understand and access their doctor's note with the help of technology as a translator.

* Workflow Diagram

  * Workflow diagram of future ("TO-BE") state (improved processes from your solution).

* Minimum Viable Product (MVP) 1.0 delivered:
In the completed version 1.0 of this project:
  1) Code has been developed to input a doctor's note, as a .txt fle
  2) A fake doctor's notes generated by ChatGPT can be successfully selected to be parsed
  3) Output a summary.txt file

* Later MVP, i.e., v2, v3, vN+ functionality to be delivered
For future enhancements, in the next versions of this project:
  * Version 1.1: Clean up Technical Debt
    * Inform user that .txt files is the only file type accepted. Git pull the latest code, make changes, then git push on GitHub Desktop    (
    *  Cleanup Code - remove code references to deprecated feature (no longer accepting input .docx and .xlsx files) and make sure it's still working after cleanup
    * Fine tune output file (summary.txt) - make it look professional
    * Fix bug where output file (summary.txt) is being overwritten without user permission (SOLUTION: Create output files with DATETIME)
  * Version 1.5: Quality Assurance
    * QA the Input files - Make sure the ChatGPT input files make sense (Sample_Report files)
    * QA the Output file - Make sure the AI returned good data (actual easy English summary of doctor's note)
  * Version 2.0: Generate fake doctor's notes dynamically, so they can be selected by the user as input text files
  * Version 3.0: Read handwriting images
  * Version 4.0: Output voice audio
  * Version 5.0: Doctor's Note to MRI person or other nurse

## Solution Design (high-level):

This project uses Faker, pandas, docx, nltk, and streamlit libraries to generate, process, and summarize a doctor's report (input as a .txt file)

## Solution Code Description (low-level design): 

1. **First, import the necessary Python libraries.** Faker is used to generate fake data, pandas is used for data manipulation, docx is used to read and write Word 
documents, nltk is used for natural language processing, and streamlit is used to create a web app.
2. **Initialize Faker**: Faker is a Python package that generates fake data. In this project, it's used to generate fake doctor's reports.
3. **Generate Doctor's Note**: This project will use Faker to generate a fake doctor's report, which it then writes to a text file. Currently Doctor's notes were created from ChatGPT and hard-coded as sample files. 
4. **Downloads necessary NLTK data**: The script uses the nltk library to download the 'punkt' and 'stopwords' 
datasets, which are used for tokenizing text and filtering out common words, respectively.
5. **Loads and reads files**: The script includes functions to load and read text files. These functions are used to read the doctor's reports that were previously saved.
6. **Summarizes reports**: The script includes a function to summarize a report. This function tokenizes the 
text, filters out common words, and identifies the most important sentences to include in the summary.
7. **Writes summaries to files**: The script includes functions to write the summaries to text files
8. **Creates a Streamlit app**: The script uses Streamlit to create a web app that allows users to upload 
a doctor's report in .txt, .docx, or .xlsx format. The app then reads the report, generates a summary, and 
writes the summary to a .txt file

## Actual Working Product Code: 

* The code is available to the public here on this GitHub Repository. 
* The required packages are:
  * Faker
  * nltk
  * openpyxl
  * pandas
  * python_docx
  * streamlit
> See this project in action on Streamlit! Click here: https://doctors-note-summarizer.streamlit.app/

## Application Instructions:

Here are the step-by-step instructions to install, set up, and use this project:

1. Download and install these software tools:
  * Anaconda Navigator
  * Visual Studio Code
2. Run these command in the Visual Studio Code terminal:
  * To create the conda virtual environment and install required Python packages:
> conda create -n doctors_note_env -c conda-forge Faker nltk pandas python-docx openpyxl streamlit
  * To switch into the created environment where all the packages were installed
> activate doctors_note_env
  * To run the project
> streamlit run Doc_Rpt_Writer.py
